Linux Basic Commands:
1.0 Man:
The man command displays the user manual of a particular command that can be run on a linux terminal.
It shows clearly the command and its details which includes name, synopsis, description, errors, files, version, etc.
Usage:
    man <command>
    man mkdir

2.0 pwd: print working directory
This command displays the path of the working directory that you are in.
Usage: 
pwd

3.0 ls: 
The command list files in a folder.
Usage:
ls /bin (If you add a folder or path to the folder, it will print its contents.

Ls command comes with many options:
ls –al
ls –a
ls – l
ls –ls
ls –lrt

4.0 mkdir: command-line utility
This command is used in creating a new folder/directory: it means make directory. With mkdir, you are able to create multiple directories at once.
Usage:
mkdir Tutorial
You can create multiple folders/directories with one command
mkdir Tutorial Appmigro Academy
Let’s explore creating multiple nested directories by adding –p (option)
mkdir –p Appmigro/Linux

5.0 cd (Change directory)
Now that we have successfully created directories, let’s examine what is inside them. cd is a command-line execution utility that allows you to move into a folder
Usage:
cd Tutorials
Let’s do:
cd . (it means check into the current folder)
    . In Linux means current folder/directory
   .. Means the directory before the current/present one which means 
cd .. Takes you one directory up the hierarchy.

6.0 rmdir
Rmdir means remove directory. This command is used to delete a directory (an empty one)
Usage:
rmdir Ubuntu

To delete a directory with files in it we use the command (rm) which is used to delete normal files with the option –rf
rm –rf Ubuntu2

7.0 touch
This is a command-line utility that enables the creation of files.
Usage:
touch file.txt

8.0 rm
This command allows the removal of files in Linux.
Usage:
rm file.txt

9.0 cp
The cp command is used to copy files and directories from one point to the other.
Usage:
cp file.txt file2.txt
To copy directories with their contents in it, the –R options needs to be added.
cp –R Tutorial Appmigro
