Searching and Navigating Content
1.0	find
find command is used to search files or directories matching a particular search pattern. It searches recursively
Usage:
find . –name ‘.txt’
The above command will display all files with the extension .txt in the current directory.
find . –type d –name Tutorial
The above command will display the directories matching the name Tutorial in the current directory.
Note: –name is case insensitive
           -iname can be used to perform case-insensitive search
To search multiple directories/folders
find folder1 folder2 –name filename.txt
There are other options to use in find.
Check the man page for find to get more.

2.0	mv
The mv command moves files and directories from one directory to another. If you move a file or directory to a new directory, it retains the base filename.
Usage:
mv file.txt directory1
The above command will move file.txt from the current directory into directory1/
You can move multiple files:
mv file1 file2 file3 directory/


3.0	ln
This is a command-line utility that is used to create a hard link or symbolic link (symlink) to an existing file or directory.
Usage: For hard link
ln <original link> <link>
ln linuxdistribution.txt linuxdistro.txt

The new hard link created will not be different from the regular original file. Anytime we edit any of these files, the content will be updated for both.
If the original file is deleted, the link will still contain the original file content. 
Downside of hard links: It cannot be linked to directories and external file systems(disk).

Usage: For soft link
ln –s example.txt example2.txt

If the original file is deleted, the links will be broken.
Advantage: the soft link can link to other file systems and to directories.
 
4.0	grep
This is one of many standard UNIX Utilities. It searches file for special words or patterns 
Usage:
grep good filename.txt
grep –I good filename.txt (This will ignore all case sensitivity).

5.0	wc 
It is a command to do word counts on text/files
Usage:
wc –w filename (prints out how many words with the filename)
wc –l filename(prints out how many lines with the filename)
wc –m filename (prints out how many characters)

6.0	diff
If we have 2 files with “almost” the same information. You can use “diff” to check the difference.
Usage:
diff filename1.txt filename2.txt

7.0	less
The less command shows the content of a file in a nice and interactive UI
Usage:
less <filename>

To navigate:
-	up keys: to go up in the file
-	Down keys: to go down
-	Space bar + b: Navigate page by page
-	G: Jump to the end of file
-	g:  Jump back to the start

8.0	tail
The tail command open the file at the end and watches for changes.
A great example: watching of big files.
Usage:
tail –f /var/log/system.log

Point to the last 10 lines in a file.
tail –n 10 <filename>

9.0	cat
The cat command is a standard command line utility that displays the content of a file.
Usage: 
cat filename.txt
